
## Ontology, Epistemology and Paradigms within Geography

Ontologies, epistemologies and paradigms are closely related philosophical concepts that apply to all geographic research. Whether or not we’re aware of them, or want to engage with them, we, as researchers, as well as the work we produce, are always embedded within specific assumptions about the world (ontologies), as well as how we know about it (epistemologies), and how we ought to learn about it (paradigms). Regardless of our subfield, we come to our work with a set of beliefs we hold to be true based on what we were taught, in what conditions, things we have experienced, and the complex systems of thought that our particular cultures embed in us. Ontology has to do with what reality *is*, whereas epistemology is about our particular ways of *understanding* that reality. Finally, these two factors combine to create a paradigm — a full suite of assumptions and knowledge processes (rooted in those assumptions) that help inform us about how we ought to conduct geographic research in a way that is grounded in a) how we see the world and b) how we believe the world can be understood. Essentially, our particular paradigm, whether it’s poststructuralist or spatial science, is dictated by what truths about the world we believe, and how we feel those truth should be tested. While these concepts are incredibly important in a variety of disciplines — history, political science, critical race theory, literature, and numerous other ‘obvious’ examples — they are also very present within geography. How we decide to define a state’s population or demographic make-up is dependent upon whether we decide a state is only made up of legal citizens, or also includes people who are ‘under the radar’, but nevertheless contribute significantly to a state’s populace, and how we decide to approach that is inherently based on who we decide counts, why, and how we can methodologically represent those assumptions.

## 
